# 2.2 Consume Types

Every thing is an object of a paticular type (managed) and compiler ensures interactions are meaningful

## Boxing and Unboxing

```c#
object o = 99;		//Boxing
int oVal = (int)o;	//Unboxing
```

Always includes interface type (Int32) which is converted to when boxing is performed.
Boxing is automatically performed when conversion between types, but boxing can slow a program down.
The need for boxing is a symptom of poor design. Distinguish between reference and value types, and work correctly.

## Cast Types

Compilation will fail when loss of data from assignment to different type takes place

```c#
float x = 9.9f;
int i = x;		//Fail
```

Perfectly capable, but will do so as a safeguard. Forcing this as an acknowledgement is called _explicit conversion_ invoked as a cast.

```c#
float x = 9.9f;
int i = (int)x;		//Success
```

Widening assingments will not require a cast, as no loss of data is incurred.

Casting will not allow conversion between different types, i.e:

```c#
int i = (int) "99";	//Fail
```

## Convert types

Runtime provices a set of conversion methods to perform _casting_ these can be extended/overriden depending on the use case.

```
class Foo
{
	public static implicit operator Bar(Foo b)
	{
		//How to make a Bar instance
	}

	public static explicit operator Baz(Foo b)
	{
		//How to make a Baz instance
	}
}
```
Note that explicit/implicit conversion scope applies here

### Convert with `System.Convert`

The `System.Convert` class provides some common conversions between types as a set of static methods;

```c#
int myAge = System.Convert("21");
```

Will throw if the conversion is unsupported

### Handle dynamic types

Compiler ensures that all calls are made to a valid target. WIll refuse to generate if not matched.
Sometimes this is restrictive, and causes problems with some situations (i.e: COM, reflection, interop with dynamic languages like JavaScript) and needs to be worked around.

Using `dynamic` is a way to tell the compiler that the type is not known at compule time. The program may compile, but be wary that if the member called does not exist at runtime, an error will be thrown.

Dynamic still infers its allocated type from the context, it simply is not known at runtime. I.e:

```c#
dynamic d = 99;		//The variable is now known to be an int and behaves as such
```

	Remember, just because you can doesn't mean you should

### Use ExpandoObject

A calss which allows dynamic addition of properties to an object. i.e:

```c#
dynamic foo = new ExpandoObject();

foo.Bar = 42;
foo.Baz = "Zap";

Console.WriteLine($"{foo.Bar} {foo.Baz}") 	// 42 Zap
```

Can be used to nest;

```c#
dynamic foo = new ExpandoObject();
foo.Bar = new ExpandoObject();
foo.Bar.Baz = "Zap"

Console.WriteLine(foo.Bar.Baz)			// Zap
```

Useful for creating data structures from markup, like JSON or XML

### Interoperability with unmanaged code that access COM APIs

COM is a mechanismt which allows software components to interact. Describes an interface for other objects to connect to.

COM runs as _Unmanaged Code_, and lies outside the .NET runtime. When COM interaction is desired, a .Net application has to;

1. Convert any parameters for the COM object to its required format
2. Switched to unmanaged execution for the COM behaviour
3. Invoke COM behaviour
4. Switch back to managed execution when COM behaviour finished
5. Convert results back to managed .NET objects

This is all performed by Primary Interop Assembly (PIA) supplied with the COM object. Returned results can be managed as dynamic objects. PIA are added like any other assembly in the solution.

Example for Microsoft Excel;

```c#
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
		// Create the interop
		var excelApp = new Microsoft.Office.Interop.Excel.Application();

		// make the app visible 
		excelApp.Visible = true;

		// Add a new workbook
		excelApp.Workbooks.Add();
	
		// Obtain the active sheet from the app
		// There is no need to cast this 
		dynamic type Microsoft.Office.Interop.Excel.Worksheet workSheet = excelApp.ActiveSheet;

		// Write into two cells 
		workSheet.Cells[1, "A"] = "Hello"; workSheet.Cells[1, "B"] = "from C#";
	}
}
```

### Embedding Type information fro assemblies

PIA assemblies can be added to the compiled output, removing the requirement for these to be present on the system already. Useful for interacting with different product versions.
